okay let's kick this off with an
anecdote let's move from the particular
to the general and not vice versa
I had a friend or I guess I might say a
colleague in university and he was a
psychology major he came into class one
day it was a TA session so I think there
was one PhD student as the instructor
and maybe ten students as a small
classroom it's not like a big theatre
classroom and the the teacher began this
University class by asking each of the
students if they had done the assigned
reading before the class and every
single one of the minute that no they
had not done the assigned reading and
the the teacher that admitted that he
himself also had not done any of the
assigned reading several the students
then suggested that they end the class
and just go home early and the TA said
that no he didn't think that we
appropriate he thought that they should
nevertheless spend a class together
given I guess that's that's what he was
paid to do so he proposed a topic for
conversation that didn't require any
reading he proposed that they discuss
what are their greatest fears psychology
being after all the subject this is a
400 level advanced psychology class and
then I think four of the students
insisted that spiders were the scariest
thing in the world and the teacher spent
his time trying to insist to them that
no being stabbed or drowned was was much
scarier and they insisted back that no
really they they considered spider the
scariest thing now the guy who told me
this anecdote he told it to me in the
sort of
harried shell-shocked unreflecting way
of someone who just come out of this
situation he wasn't
I'm just certain he was telling me the
absolute truth he was telling very
literal truth
he tells well the situations where he
just kind of walked out of the situation
and was utterly exasperated with it and
hadn't kind of made up his mind he
hadn't constructed it into a charming
anecdote or what have you and you know I
felt very keenly the same type of
exasperation and you know disappointment
time and time again and was
academia and you know it's partly a
sense of shock and disbelief how is it
possible that in this setting you know
which may have you know wood panel on
the walls may have you know a ivy
growing on the stone walls literally my
university didn't place this in a
restaurant they had some ivy growing
losses home you have these pretensions
you have this tremendous cost you're
paying thousands of thousand dollars you
have this brief opportunity in your life
to get an education how it could it
possibly be that the type of
conversation you're having is it's such
a low level that it can be compared to
schoolyard banter like not even high
school grade school the the the you know
the intellectual discussions among
children how is it possible that a
university instructor or professor is so
shamelessly lacking preparation has not
done the reading and so on I had
professors admit to me openly that they
had not read the book that the course
was based on you know in one case it was
supposed to be about philosophy or throw
up an hour and the the professor side of
the course that maybe he had never read
Schopenhauer I'm on tape one of the
class and I did write and send in a
complaint about it
but it was it was a ridiculous situation
there's a lot more I could tell that
story
there was another course that was
supposed to be about Thomas Hobbes and
exactly the period of the English Civil
War and the woman the professor who was
teaching the class and I was later told
mentioned she was a woman because in
this case I was told as a matter of fact
by other professors that she was given
the job because who of who she was
sleeping with she was sleeping with
another professor
the woman who was assigned the class did
not know the name Oliver Cromwell she
didn't know the name of the you know the
person who's that the person who is as
important to that period of history as
Napoleon is to the Napoleonic era or
what have you
he's the single most important and it
was very obvious to me she so she
admitted that she admitted she never
heard of Oliver Cromwell she did not
admit to me that she had actually never
read Thomas Hobbes Leviathan but it
seemed to me quite obvious that that she
had not and it's a shameless I mean the
the low
low standards that go on in the
classroom now I've not been here using
really I haven't been using the type of
examples that the scandals are made of
there's plenty of that that that goes on
also in the university what the reason
why I mention these these peculiar funny
little examples and and many of you
watching this will know hundreds more
I've also read examples that were that
ended up in court and thus ended up in
the newspapers of professorial
incompetence and in conduct and poor
conduct this culture of impunity will
end precisely when the possibility of
scrutiny is introduced into it I
mentioned this concept of scrutiny many
times in the earlier video and I pointed
that peer review is not a system of
scrutiny it's just a system of
censorship now students are capable of
scrutinizing their professors what
they're not capable of by and large is
scrutinizing them on the spot instantly
and standing up with self-confidence and
challenging the professor right that and
of course if they do they may be
punished they may get a lower grade they
may get they may have opportunities take
it away from them so what the internet
opens up and especially with Internet
video is the possibility of student
recording the video doing fact-checking
later and then sharing this quite
possibly anonymously
it creates the dynamic possibility of
real scrutiny so that students can
scrutinize the professor so that other
professors could scrutinize the conduct
of the professor and so on and suddenly
facts matter now it's very sad that the
professors in the current generation are
so utterly lacking in an ethic of of
Education frankly I was gonna say of
educational responsibility of feeling
this responsibility towards their
students when I was going through
university the most elderly professors
they still did have that ethic and I
could see that there were both
advantages and disadvantages towards
their attitude so they're really really
old early professors sometimes felt that
you know they knew the interpretation of
Plato
and they had to share with the next
generation they had to share with you
the student or the students plural the
correct interpretation of Plato and of
course this this does then this makes
the course into a railroad track there's
one point of departure there's one
conclusion the course is going to move
on a straight line and there's no
possibility of the student having their
own interpretation or frankly original
thought that that would be valued in the
classroom the next generation coming
after them I think they very broadly
wanted to challenge that paradigm they
believed that all of these texts were
open to an infinite number of equally
valid interpretations and that the
creativity of the student should be
valued in the classroom and an essay
running however that belief became a
pretext for them to frankly shirk all
the responsibilities a professor might
have and I think there are sort of
conscious of one side of the coin and
utterly unconscious of the other one
let's say mindful of one side of that
equation and they're not mindful at all
about the other so the same
justification that that you know let's
the professor say well all I need to do
is present you young adults of this text
and you'll you'll make up your own lines
sort of does in this strange way lead to
the attitude that oh well it doesn't
really matter if the professor hasn't
thoroughly prepared you know their own
notes and their own lecture it doesn't
matter if the professor hasn't actually
familiarized themselves with the status
of women and Confucianism or what
actually happened in the English Civil
War even though the course generally and
today's lecture particularly is about
exactly this topic you know it's not
like Plato it doesn't matter they
haven't actually gone back and looked at
the text maybe for 20 years or in many
cases I've had professors teaching texts
that you read never it doesn't matter
that there are vast factual errors in
the material they're they're presenting
you necessary so another example from
our life
I had several times professors in Asian
Studies who were completely omitting
India really the subcontinent of India
they were
teaching the history of Asia as if it
consisted only of China and Japan on the
one hand and then the West the
interactions with the West this leads to
to many many absurdities in the
classroom but one professor you know was
seriously presenting his lecture with no
irony he was presenting the history of
Asian Studies as a discipline as
something that began in Chicago after
World War two and that arose out of the
American interaction with Japan and you
know again I'm much more self-confident
than the other students at the classroom
other students again if you film this
and put it on YouTube if you sat back
and watch live if you scrutinized what
your professor was saying later maybe
maybe in relation to what you google or
look up on Wikipedia maybe even in
relation to the assigned readings you're
doing the readings and you're looking
back at what that lecture was afterwards
you might occur to you to say what what
I said which is you know I'm sorry but
but this doesn't make sense
have you heard of Sanskrit have you
heard of the centuries long tradition of
European scholarship on Sanskrit that is
certainly prior to World War two you
know now even if we're limiting this to
you know Jesuit scholars walking to
China from Europe service ain't walking
shouldn't say walking but it works re
going to train up I am but so sometimes
by horse and carriage and sometimes you
know by boat journey and what-have-you
but going by primitive means China the
contact between Europe and Asia goes
back a very long ways indeed the Vatican
archives have wonderful manuscripts
going back to you know early
interactions from Europeans and and the
Chinese and with India the contact was
basically never broken there's basically
never a period of history where Europe
did not have contact with India to
partly just due to geography trade and
and what-have-you um but you know the
same fateful year 1492 so if you go out
the United States you know they teach
children this rhyme in 1492 Columbus
sailed the ocean blue as I recall it
starting in 1490
that you have permanent European
colonies on the shores of India so it's
the Portuguese and the Spanish who wrote
there first and then the British and the
French raced to catch up with them but
the colonisation including really brutal
slaughter of civilians of my dad I've
read many of those accounts but is
saying in case you think brutality
somehow came much later know many of the
efforts that the colonisation began with
remarkably pointless slaughter and
brutality the the colonisation and then
indeed the Asian Studies the studies of
the languages and cultures the
intellectual Gatien of the people starts
well to say the least much much earlier
than World War two now this professor
was flabbergasted he was astonished that
somebody would factually challenged him
on his claim that asian asian studies
began in in after World War Two in
Chicago and you know this isn't even
Eurocentric this is America centric and
Japan is that they say I'm sorry you not
know there are great traditions of sign
ology even if we're just talking about
China in Germany Switzerland Italy but
you know France England people I fine
ology is one thing the study of China
and Japan sure but I mean against
Sanskrit if you talk about the
engagement with India and with Indian
literature you've got many trips going
back a long long way and as it so
happens I I have some experience in this
field now you can see most professors
have known feel afraid of their students
it's true some students feel bullied by
the professor's but they may
underestimate the extent to which the
professors feel bullied by the students
at all times and in a situation like
this the reason why it was so difficult
I think for this this professor to
accept my it's not even criticism just
pointing out that what he's saying is
grossly
inaccurate is that I think he'd given
the same lecture every year maybe every
second year for his entire career as a
tenured professor and it had never
occurred to him to question this
assumption that the time it Chicago
after after World War two it's it's
patently absurd professors who feel
afraid of their students you know we
have an old saying in English that shame
is the mother of learning you know
there's an alternative and I think that
sousveillance coming into the classroom
so I eat the power of surveillance being
in the hands of students as soon as
they're aware of the possibility that
they'll actually be accountable for what
they teach not just for its accuracy but
in a sense it having a positive
educational intent attached to it like
are you really teaching things in order
to benefit the students or you just
indulging your own eccentricities your
own research interests are you bragging
or boasting about irrelevant things well
you know I had one professor who came in
she was a very young professor and she
she started the first class by putting
her backpack on the table and standing
there like a stand-up comedian and and
talking about the fact that she was gay
disabled and qubcois and therefore she
was a minority within a minority within
a minority and she did this whole like
social justice warrior stand-up comedy
routine and you know this this was a
serious political science class and she
was using the time that were paid
thousands of dollars to be there for you
know just just talk about herself and
her life and I mean it wasn't I just
mentioned it wasn't funny I mean nobody
else laughed I found it enjoyable but
you know is this kind of uneasy silence
in the whole class is a relationship of
authority to this professor and yet
we're there with our books and our
notebooks and sling should we be taking
notes on this while you talk about
what it's like being a disabled lesbian
from Quebec and you know and it was
something like wasn't abate today's
lessons supposed to be on Plato it
wasn't played it was probably John
Stuart Mill but it was one of the major
political philosophers that that we were
supposed to be covering um you know
obviously the world would be a better
place if professors were positively
motivated to help their students if they
cared about education for the sake of
education if they were trying to educate
their students just because it was the
right thing to do but bringing
sousveillance into the classroom
bringing the possibility of real
scrutiny and real accountability in the
classroom will transform university
level education I mean look it could
transform all education I mean I know
accounts of people there's one kind of
run the internet a family they had a
disabled child who was in a you know in
a school that had a special program for
the disabled children and they could
just tell from the way their their son
was shaken up
that something was wrong at school but
they didn't know what it was and because
he's mentally disabled he couldn't
really articulate them with promos and
so they just put an audio recorder in
his backpack that he didn't know was
there and recorded what the teacher said
all day and you know this little level
of surveillance and then of course they
could put it on the internet and they
could take a complaint forward to the
school they found out right away
what what what the problem was
it certainly is sad to say that the the
terror professors will feel the the the
the the fear of the fear of being wrong
the fear of misleading their students
the fear of being inaccurate the fear of
being that other jobs is gonna be what
will motivate a fundamental improvement
in in modern Western academia but you
know in some ways fear gets a bad rap
the professor's have known who felt
bullied and he felt afraid of their
students you know the question I had to
ask them you have to be very delicate
and ask this question is
why can't you take this fear and turn it
into a positive motivation why don't you
have the passion to really fact check
your own work I mean it wouldn't even
take more than a Google search to go
through your lecture notes and question
wait a minute why are you saying that
Confucianism teaches that men and women
are equal teachers chance recall it's
it's nothing worse than a Google search
to to fact check that have you read the
text why aren't you going these lectures
feeling a sense of pride that you know
your stuff and feeling a sense of
positive mission that you're sharing
with the next generation something
really meaningful something they're
they're gonna take on board for their
careers or just for the betterment of
their own minds and their own sense of
moral responsibility on planet earth i
i've known very close to zero professors
who had that sense of passe Novation i
could I could make a separate video
talking about the exceptions the
professor's who really did have that
sense of positive motivation and who
cared who cared about the content of
what they were teaching and who cared
about the impact this was gonna have on
their students but it's very clear I
look speaking about every culture I've
ever been a part of but I've ever stuck
my toe into it's obvious that sorry to
quote one of my own professors I have
one professor who was an anarchist and
something he wrote was simply Authority
is real today Rosa Parks course
authorities an abstract concept the
effects of authority can be measured and
quantified it's it's a very sad fact
that you know in the humble shabby
context at the university classroom the
professor doesn't feel like a tyrant
it's called the professor of anything
they may feel powerless and bullied by
his or her own students and yet
nevertheless the effect of the authority
they have is very real and we see really
every day on University campuses we see
a parody of the very virtues that
professors are supposed to exemplify we
see them making
and irresponsible use of the little bit
of the authority they have in no way to
the betterment of their students and you
know ultimately I think leading to their
abandoning you know the very sense of
positive purpose and mission that
probably at some stage inspired them to
commit their lives to an area of study
to an area of research to take the first
steps that led to them being in that
position of authority in the first place
sousveillance if a policeman only treats
you with courtesy and respect because he
knows that he's on camera it is
nevertheless the case that he's treating
you with courtesy and respect if your
professors redouble their efforts to
know their material and deliver it in a
manner that's really meaningful and
cogent if they make that effort only
because they know they're on camera and
maybe they know examples of their
colleagues who've been made fools out of
by throwing out false facts at least
they are at least they are inspired one
way or another to make that effort to
show you that courtesy and respect